[MUSIC]
We have seen an algorithm for a special
special case of the knapsack problem.
We have seen an algorithm for
Now has finally come the time to see what
you have been waiting for impatiently.
An algorithm for
the general case of the knapsack problem.
Why have we been wasting all this time?
Because we can now leverage all
the work we have done previously.
We know how to solve the problem
when all values are small integers.
We have an algorithm for that case.
So, how do we solve that general case?
The idea is simple.
We will just do a reduction.
We will take our general input and
we will modify it, so
that the values become small integers,
integers between 0 and N.
And then, once we're there, we can just
leverage the algorithm we designed it for
and use it as a black box.
That's an algorithm by reduction.
How do we modify the input so
that the values are small integers?
We do the most natural
thing you could imagine.
First, we want them to be small,
so we scale.
Second, we want them to be integers.
So we round.
That's, these are not big ideas and
yet that is going to suffice.
So here is the general algorithm.
Initially some pre processing step
let us discard the items that
don't fit in a knapsack.
If an item has a size that is too big to
fit in a knapsack, we just throw it away.
Consider the remaining items.
Multiply each value by a scalar, so
that the resulting values
are all less than or equal to n.
Then round all these scaled values
down to the nearest integer.
Now, in this modified input,
we can apply the dynamic program
seen in the previous section.
That's the general algorithm.
Simple.
Pictorially, you can see it this way.
This is the reduction.
Initially, we have a bunch of items,
and here I plotted their values.
We scale them so that the maximum
item size becomes exactly equal to N.
And then,
we take all of these scale values, and
decrease them a little bit,
so that they become integers.
1, 2, up to N.
What is the effect of scaling?
The maximum scale value is n.
What does it mean?
That we must have multiplied
by n over the max value.
So we multiply every item by alpha
defined to be capital n over max value.
But what is n?
How do we pick N?
I did not say it yet.
The answer is, we pick it small and large.
We pick it small enough that
the runtime is polynomial.
The smaller N is, the smaller the runtime.
We know the runtime is
linear in terms of N.
Large enough that we will
still have an accurate output.
The value of the output
will be close to optimum.
Now, is it possible to take capital N,
both small and large?
That's the object of this algorithm and
analysis.
Choose N just right that
the run time is polynomial and
the value is close to optimum.
So here's the algorithm.
Discard items not fitting.
Let's define N = 100 times little n,
let's say.
Define the prime i as a scaled rounded
value, the floor of the i times alpha.
Apply the dominant program to the modified
input where the knapsack is still d,
the sizes are still s i, but
the values are v prime i.
This gives us, as a result,
a collection of items and
we output the corresponding items.
That's the general algorithm.
Simple.
What is the runtime of this algorithm?
Well, for that we have to
remember how the program worked.
What dominates the runtime?
What dominates the runtime
are the two nested for loops.
One ranging up to little n,
one ranging to 0 to -1 and
then vi Up to n times N.
In total multiply and
we get n squared times N.
For this a choice of value of N,
that gives 100n cubed.
We have a cubic time algorithm.
So we have seen an algorithm for
the general knapsack problem, it runs in
cubic time, it outputs something that
is correct that fits in a knapsack.
It only remains to analyze it to show
that the value of the output is close to
optimum.